the invisibrake is a towed braking
system that uses electricity from the
brake signals in the motor home to brake
the towed vehicle providing additional
protection to help avoid an accident
when the brake lights of the motorhome
are activated the standard yellow and
green wires provide power to the
invisibrake activating the air cylinder
that flows down the brake pedal please
note this video is intended to simplify
the installation and may not include
every step in the normal process always
refer to the printed instructions for
all cautions warnings and other
pertinent information before attempting
in a visible installation planning your
invisibrake install is key to a
hassle-free installation that saves time
and effort for the Installer and avoids
potential issues for the customer
always check your existing lighting
check the lighting on the vehicle by
pulling the vehicle up behind the
motorhome and connecting the tow
lighting electrical cord between the two
vehicles right
all right great
do not connect the towbar on the safety
cables or you may experience a false
ground
choose a mounting location for the
controller under the driver's seat is
usually the best spot with a good
alternate spot being under the passenger
seat if mounting under the seat make
certain that the unit will not impede
adjustments of the seat
choose a mounting location for the brake
pedal clamp after installation full and
complete brake pedal travel is key as
such it should be mounted as low as
possible on the brake pedal arm choose a
mounting location on the firewall for
the pulley it needs to be positioned
directly in line with the l-shaped brake
pedal clamp so the cable aligns directly
to the center of the pulley wheel or
poor braking will result the pulley must
be mounted on a flat surface and
directly to metal pulley bracket kit
8,700 as PVC will solve this issue
choose a mounting location for the cable
anchor bracket and cable assembly
wherever you choose to mount this
assembly the spot must ensure the cable
housing has no more than a 90 degree
radius on each turn or poor braking will
result
now you are ready for the installation
attach both sides of the pedal clamp
using the supplied hardware and then
attach the adjuster sleeve to the pedal
clamp route the cable over the pulley
and then position the pulley make
adjustments as needed to the cables in a
straight line with the pulley and then
use the supplied hardware to secure the
pulley tighten the brake pedal clamp
using the supplied hardware
make sure the cable is in a straight
line to the pulley and that there isn't
any slack in it move the cable anchor
bracket forward or backward until the
ball is clearly visible using the
supplied hardware secure the cable
anchor bracket double check that
securing the cable anchor bracket did
not inadvertently cause the brakes to be
applied insert the check valve and T
positioning the valves of the barbed
fitting with the red band is closest to
the engine and that the arrow on it is
pointing toward the engine press the
quarter inch rubber vacuum hose over the
bottom of the t make certain the
connections are secure or loss of
braking power could occur
attach the four wire electrical harness
to the controller unit route the other
end under the dash and through the hole
in the firewall and attach it to the
towed car wiring harness that comes from
the motor home install the new breakaway
using the supplied hardware
attach the four wire flat harness with a
6 pin connector to the controller unit
route the harness to the vehicle's
aftermarket toll light harness find a
convenient point to attach the wires to
that harness use the supplied hardware
to secure the controller to the spot you
chose earlier
install the monitor harness by choosing
a spot for the 15-foot harness route the
other end of the harness through the
engine compartment in the firewall using
an existing hole if available find the
cold side of the brake light switch
remove the switches fuse and tap into
the switch to power the monitors led
reinstall the fuse now reattach the door
trim paneling or carpeting over the
vacuum line cable housing and electrical
wiring from the controller unit
invisibrake includes a monitor that is
attached to the dash of the motor home
please note if the motor home is
equipped with an extra circuit you may
wish to use that circuit to save time on
the installation now choose an area on
the dash of the motor home to mount the
LED wherever you choose it should be
easily seen by the driver drill a 5/16
inch hole and install the LED ensuring
you don't damage engine components as
you're drilling connect the audio signal
circuit board to the LED and both
components to the black wire from the
rear of the motor home
connect the monitor wire patch cord
Queen the two vehicles please note if in
the previous step you use the extra
circuit this step is not necessary the
installation is complete but first let's
test the critical components of this
system confirm braking in both vehicles
all right brakes
confirm the motorhome monitor is
functioning confirm the extended braking
protection is functioning as well as the
audio alert adjust the braking pressure
as needed if the motorhomes LED is not
lit you need more pressure
and the installation is complete we hope
this video has provided helpful
information for all future installations